---
layout: post
title: AOC 2020 - Day 3
date: 2020-12-04 01:42
author: ndileas
comments: true
categories: [code, Uncategorized]
---

Well, it's day 3. I'm trying not to hit (more than the minimum amount of) trees with my toboggan. I did this challenge during the day, and I did a little better: 18:27 (I'm adding a couple minutes because I started the timer after I read the problem by accident). I wonder how much of the time difference is just being a little less tired? Hard to say. I wish I had the energy to stay up and work on the problems at midnight, but I think that would just lead to me being frustrated and burnt out on the whole thing.


{% include image.html
            img="https://natedileas.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/day3_pithy_screenshot.png"
            title="My God, it's full of stees! I mean, trars!"
            caption="My God, it's full of stees! I mean, trars!" %}


I could have done much better; I lost about 5 minutes to a bug I introduced when I refactored for the second part of the puzzle. I forgot that `str.splitlines()` removes the line separators, and `file.readlines()` doesn't, which caused my regressions to fail. It took me a bit to figure out why, but I got it eventually, after holding down ctrl-z and ctrl-y for a bit. Maybe I should have jumped straight to pdb? But that cost me a ton of time on the last puzzle. Pre-emptively, I could've not changed from `file.read()` and a later `data.splitlines()`, but I thought there was no difference at the time. Moral: Do Not Change The Working Code Lest Ye Be Damned? Print Out Some Intermediate Data And Maybe You'll Calm Down?



The puzzles are still simple enough that there's not a lot of design choices to explain. Basically, the whole problem reduces to, "Find the number of hashes on a given integer slope in the map." The only wrinkle is that the map is infinitely repeating on the positive x axis, leading to the modulo on line 8 of the function. Initially, I wrote this as a script, then refactored it into a function when the second part of the puzzle required running multiple slopes on the same map, then finding the product.


    def check_slope(slope, lines):
        nlines = len(lines)
        lenlines = len(lines[0])

        y = 0
        x = 0
        ntrees = 0
        while y &lt; len(lines) - 1:
            x = (x + slope[0]) % lenlines
            y += slope[1]
            ntrees += int(lines[y][x] == '#')

        return ntrees



This is all pretty idiomatic python, I probably could have named things a bit better though. I write stuff like this all the time when doing image processing, so I didn't mess up the indices, incrementing by the slope properly, or anything silly like that this time.



[Heeeere's YAGL ](https://github.com/natedileas/advent-of-code/blob/main/2020/day3.py) (Yet Another Github Link). Tune in next time for more silly mistakes with Nathan.

