---
layout: post
title: AOC 2020 - Day 6
date: 2020-12-06 16:24
author: ndileas
comments: true
categories: [code, Uncategorized]
---

Finished in 6:14!! This was a easy and fun set of puzzles. 

{% include image.html
            img="https://natedileas.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/day6_pithy_screenshot.png"
            title="Apparently the North Pole is doing a bad job with multilingual support. Also, what kind of customs form depends on other people's answers? PA: \"Remember to report any suspicious activity, and collaborate with your seatmates to determine if you are illegal aliens. God Bless America.\""
            caption="Apparently the North Pole is doing a bad job with multilingual support. Also, what kind of customs form depends on other people's answers? PA: \"Remember to report any suspicious activity, and collaborate with your seatmates to determine if you are illegal aliens. God Bless America.\"" %}

{% include image.html
            img="https://natedileas.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/timer_screenshot_day6.png"
            title=""
            caption="" %}



This challenge was pretty easy; adding up the length of the union (part 1) and the intersection (part 2) of the various sets of records. I took a minute to refresh my mind on the python set and it's methods, but after that I was pretty much limited by my reading and typing speed. I think this is the first challenge where my typing speed was actually a significant factor. Looking at the leaderboard, the average speed (of the top 100) for this challenge was about 2 minutes. I think I could probably get up there if I did leetcode or hackerrank obsessively. I'll probably never invest the effort for that, though.  



This is the entire [code ](https://github.com/natedileas/advent-of-code)for this challenge. I could have had less code duplication (and gotten the second part done faster) if I had used an explicit union in part 1. Then, part 2 would have a been a copy-paste and a change of a single function name. If only I had realized that the "any" specification was likely to change to "all" for part 2.


    from functools import reduce
    
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        data = open('input6.txt').read()
    
        groups = data.split('\n\n')
    
        sumuniq = 0
        for group in groups:
            uniq = set(group.replace('\n', ''))
            sumuniq += len(uniq)
    
        print(sumuniq)
    
        sumall = 0
        for group in groups:
            sets = [set(person) for person in group.split('\n')]
    
            sett = reduce(lambda a,b: a.intersection(b), sets)
            sumall += len(sett)
    
        print(sumall)</pre>
    
