---
layout: post
title: AOC 2020 - Day 5
date: 2020-12-05 16:48
author: ndileas
comments: true
categories: [code, Uncategorized]
---

This one was fun! Using python for this felt like cheating, honestly. Doing the challenge right after breakfast made everything seem easier too.


{% include image.html
            img="https://natedileas.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/day5_pithy_screenshot-1.png"
            title="This never happens in real life, because I hold onto my boarding pass and ID in my sweaty little hands for the entire time I'm in the airport."
            caption="This never happens in real life, because I hold onto my boarding pass and ID in my sweaty little hands for the entire time I'm in the airport." %}

{% include image.html
            img="https://natedileas.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/timer_screenshot_day5-1.png"
            title="Best Time Yet!"
            caption="Best Time Yet!" %}


Anecdotally, I spent almost 6 minutes reading the problem statement before writing any code. If I had gotten the critical mapping sooner, I could have cut my time in half easily. I wonder if using some sort of screen recording + reviewing time spent later might help me improve my times, like suggested by [that one Dan Luu post](https://danluu.com/p95-skill/). In a sense, every one of these puzzles is based on recognizing a standard problem / structure, and adjusting for the problem-specific peculiarities.



The critical insight for part 1 was that this: `FBFBFBF == 0101010`; exactly how an integer is stored in a most-significant-bit encoding. Python's tools for working with strings and binary conversion made this a breeze. Part 2 was straightforward data munging; find the missing id in a sorted list. I did part 2 in the shell with numpy in about a minute.



    def boarding_pass_row(seq):
        assert len(seq) == 7
        seqb = seq.replace('F', '0').replace('B', '1')
        return int(seqb, 2)
    
    def boarding_pass_col(seq):
        assert len(seq) == 3
        seqb = seq.replace('R', '1').replace('L', '0')
        return int(seqb, 2)
    
    def row_id(seq):
        row, col = boarding_pass_row(seq[:7]), boarding_pass_col(seq[7:])
        return 8 * row + col

For the full code, like and subscribe to [my github.](https://github.com/natedileas/advent-of-code/blob/main/2020/day5.py) This episode sponsored by nothing and no one; "Feel the call of the void!"™.

